The project is currently in Week 5 of the 8 Week schedule, to date the team has
remained on course with the project schedule. A number of team decisions have
helped to maintain this progress. The most important of which are the use of a
scrum board (Trello) for keeping track of tasks in progress, the division of
work to play to members strengths and the separation of server and mobile
development tasks.

Although the team is currently on track, it is from this point onwards that
meeting the deadlines will become increasingly difficult. Up to this point we
were implementing the ‘low hanging fruit’ functionally, the outstanding tasks
like “Geocoding of messages without explicit locations”, “Enhance
classification and clustering algorithms” and “Disruptions for Stored Routes”
have some inherent difficulties.

At this stage in the development no revisions are foreseen for the development
schedule.

\subsection{Server development}

The server has been configured with a geographical database and we are
currently collecting Transport for London and Twitter data for analysis. We
have manually labelled a subsection of these tweets in order to train the
classifier to identify tweets about traffic. A basic Naive Bayes classifier is
currently in development and is being trained using these manually labeled
tweets. Finally a module has also been written to identify timely geographical
clusters of traffic tweets in an attempt to identify new traffic disruption
events.

\subsection{Mobile application development}

In order to minimise dependency on the server development for the mobile
application, a  mock web-server was created to serve sample data in the agreed
format. The mobile application development began with the creation of a number
lo-fidelity UI prototypes, once the functionality of the application was agreed
a hi-fidelity design was created and implemented. Currently the application is
able to request traffic events for the current location and display them in a
list, on clicking on a traffic event a list of tweets for the event are
requested and displayed to the user. 
